7.1.0 documentation (#869)
128technology/docs: docs/config-factory-reset.md

A log file of the platform cleanup operation is written out to `/tmp` while the `reset factory-default` command is being run. After the device is scrubbed, the log file is migrated to `/var/log` for inspection.

:::note
Factory reset does not revert the device to the software version installed during manufacture. The device remains at the current software version. 
:::

### SSR4x0 Fail-Safe Restore Process

The following procedure is to be used as a recovery method when **both** the [Serial Console Port](sec-disable-ports.md#disable-serial-console-port) and [Firmware Recovery](sec-disable-ports.md#disable-firmware-recovery) have been set as **disabled**. When configured, it means that a failed upgrade will not allow the user to select the image on the other volume (since the Console port is disabled, no user input is possible). 

> If **both** the Serial Console Port and Firmware Recovery are disabled, and an incorrect or empty IP address is configured for one of the Ethernet ports (or system boot repeatedly fails for any other reason), use the Fail-Safe Restore process for recovery.

Reviewer: this para could be removed as #48 already covered it.

1. Power off the system. 

2. Press and hold the Reset switch.

3. Power on the system. Do not release the Reset switch. When the switch is detected, the LED will fade to Red.

4. Continue to hold the Reset switch for 10 seconds. The LED will slowly fade from red to black. 

:::important
If you release the Reset switch during the 10 seconds of red to black fade, the system will simply reboot without resetting.
:::

5. The LED will turn white, and fade to black. 

6. Release the Reset switch.

> 7. The LED will slowly fade white to black every two seconds until the reset is complete. 

Reviewer: reset -> zeroization

:::important

> DO NOT reboot during this process. The factory reset will not complete.

Reviewer: this is not a factory reset. its zeroization

---
title: Factory Reset
sidebars_label: Factory Reset
---

The SSR software, SSR1x0, SSR1x00, and SSR4x0 series provide the ability to reset to factory defaults. The SSR software and SSR1x0/1x00 devices use a software reset to return to the original factory defaults, and remove customer configurations.

The SSR400 and SSR440 provides software-activated reset as well as a reset button on the device. With the reset button, you have the option of resetting to a previously defined golden configuration, or reset to the factory configuration and perform a secure zeroization.

Use the information below to determine the best option for your deployment.    

## SSR400 and SSR440 Factory Reset

The SSR400 and SSR440 devices are equipped with a reset switch to perform the following actions:

> 1.	Press and hold for up to 4 seconds to **reboot** the device.

Author: Not currently - feedback from Adam D was that there is a Jira for it in the future.

2.	Press and hold for up to 15 seconds initiates a reset to a **rescue, or golden**, configuration.
3.	Press and hold for up to 30 seconds initiates a reset to the **factory default** configuration.

Holding the reset button for longer than 30 seconds cancels any of the button press actions described above.  

### Reboot

> This action is the standard system reboot, often performed as part of troubleshooting. Hold the **Reset** button for 4 seconds to reboot.

Reviewer 2: nit: "up to 4 seconds" like you used above is more clear. This could give the impression they need to hit 4 seconds precisely.

### Reset to the Rescue Configuration

Press and hold the **Reset** button for more than 5 seconds but less than 15 to load and commit the rescue configuration. The rescue, or golden configuration is a router-only configuration, and is used as a manual fall back if the device configuration becomes corrupt or is unable to establish communications with the network. 

Note that if a golden configuration has not been set, holding the reset button for 5-15 seconds does nothing.

The rescue, or golden configuration is set via API at onboarding. For information about using the API to generate a golden configuration, see [Create a Golden Reset Configuration](#create-a-golden-reset-configuration). It should be noted that in an HA configuration, if one node is reset to the golden config, the other node (standby node) will receive the same golden config from it's HA peer. 

### Factory Reset

Press and hold the **Reset** button for up to 30 seconds to initiate a reset to the factory default configuration.

> This process deletes all configurations on the device, including the backup configurations and rescue configuration, and loads and commits the original factory configuration. It also removes all data files, including customized configuration and log files, by unlinking the files from their directories. The command removes all user-created files from the system, including all plain-text passwords, secrets, and private keys for SSH, local encryption, local authentication, IPsec, RADIUS, TACACS+, and others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This process deletes all configurations on the device, including the backup configurations and rescue configuration, and loads and commits the original factory configuration. It also removes all data files, including customized configuration and log files, by unlinking the files from their directories. The command removes all user-created files from the system, including passwords, secrets, and private keys for SSH, certificates, local encryption, local authentication, IPsec, RADIUS, TACACS+, and others.
```

Note that if a golden configuration has not been set, holding the reset button for 5-15 seconds does nothing.

The rescue, or golden configuration is set via API at onboarding. For information about using the API to generate a golden configuration, see [Create a Golden Reset Configuration](#create-a-golden-reset-configuration). It should be noted that in an HA configuration, if one node is reset to the golden config, the other node (standby node) will receive the same golden config from it's HA peer. 

### Factory Reset

Press and hold the **Reset** button for up to 30 seconds to initiate a reset to the factory default configuration.

This process deletes all configurations on the device, including the backup configurations and rescue configuration, and loads and commits the original factory configuration. It also removes all data files, including customized configuration and log files, by unlinking the files from their directories. The command removes all user-created files from the system, including all plain-text passwords, secrets, and private keys for SSH, local encryption, local authentication, IPsec, RADIUS, TACACS+, and others.

> #### What Happens

Reviewer 3: Given your high level description of the effects of the factory reset above, I think this `What Happened` section can be removed.

:::important
If you release the Reset switch during the 10 seconds of red to black fade, the system will simply reboot without resetting.
:::

5. The LED will turn white, and fade to black. 

6. Release the Reset switch.

7. The LED will slowly fade white to black every two seconds until the reset is complete. 

:::important
DO NOT reboot during this process. The factory reset will not complete.
:::

8. When the LED has stopped the slow white to black fade, it has returned to the factory settings and will shut down. You can then power up the system. 

## Software Factory Reset

SSR Software Factory reset removes system files and zero-writes unallocated data for increased security. Once initiated, the system stops all running processes and restores the system to the factory default configuration.

The `restore system factory-default` command performs the following steps: 

- Reset the device configuration to the factory defaults found on the device hard drive.

- Commit the configuration.

- Check the root-only directory for any executables and run any that are found.

- Reboot the device.

```
restore system factory-default [force] [router <router>] [node <node>] [<mode>]
```

> The following security steps and platform cleanup operations take place during the factory reset operation.

Reviewer 3: This looks to be a duplicate of the "what happened" section and can be removed.
